Fix the Machine Agent backend issues with the JOG and Set Work Offset features.

1. JOG is currently not working correctly.
The frontend sends a JOG request, but the generated command reaching the GRBL simulator has an invalid/malformed format.

The log currently looks like:
SERIAL -> TCP: b'J=G21G91X?Y??Z?F????\n'

This is NOT valid GRBL JOG syntax.

Use the proper GRBL 1.1 jog command format. For example:
$J=G21G91X10F1000
or:
$J=G21G91Y-10F1000

The backend must construct the command from the requested axis, direction, distance, feed rate, and units without inserting invalid characters or corrupting the command.

Make sure:
- X/Y/Z values are optional and only the selected axis is included.
- Positive/negative directions are preserved.
- Distance is numeric and properly formatted.
- Feed rate is numeric.
- The command ends with \n.
- The command is sent through the UGS Core GrblController/communicator correctly.
- Do NOT manually concatenate malformed strings.
- Validate the final command before sending it.
- Return a clear API error if the JOG request is invalid.

2. Fix the "Set Work Offset" feature.

The frontend allows the operator to enter values, but currently the values do not actually modify the machine/work coordinates.

Implement this correctly using GRBL-supported coordinate offset commands.

IMPORTANT:
There are two different concepts and they must NOT be confused:

A. Machine Position (MPos)
The physical machine coordinate reported by GRBL.
The software must NOT pretend that MPos changed when the user changes the work coordinate system.

B. Work Position (WPos)
The coordinate system used by the operator/program.
The user should be able to redefine the current physical position as a desired work coordinate.

For example:
Current:
MPos = X10 Y20 Z0
WPos = X10 Y20 Z0

User enters:
X=0
Y=0
Z=0

After applying the work offset, the physical machine has NOT moved.
MPos remains unchanged.

Only the work coordinate system should change so that the current physical position is interpreted as:
WPos = X0 Y0 Z0.

Use the correct GRBL mechanism for setting the work coordinate offset, such as G10 L20 / the appropriate GRBL-supported command, rather than trying to directly overwrite the reported machine position.

3. The Set Work Offset UI must support:
- X
- Y
- Z
- Set only selected axes
- Set current position to zero
- Set current position to an arbitrary user-defined work coordinate
- Clear/reset the work offset if supported
- Show the resulting MPos and WPos after the operation

Example:

Current machine position:
MPos X=10
MPos Y=25
MPos Z=0

User chooses:
Set Work Position:
X=0
Y=0
Z=0

Expected result:
MPos remains:
X=10 Y=25 Z=0

WPos becomes:
X=0 Y=0 Z=0

No physical movement must occur.

4. Verify the implementation end-to-end.

Test the complete chain:

Frontend
→ HTTP API
→ Machine Agent
→ UGS Core
→ GrblController
→ Serial communicator
→ GRBL simulator

For JOG, verify the exact command received by the simulator.

For Set Work Offset, verify that:
- the command is valid GRBL syntax,
- GRBL accepts it,
- MPos does not change,
- WPos changes correctly,
- the backend status endpoint reports the updated coordinates,
- SSE telemetry also reports the updated coordinates.

Do not only modify the frontend to make it appear successful. The actual GRBL/UGS backend behavior must be correct.

After implementing the fixes, run the existing tests and add backend tests for:
- valid JOG command generation,
- invalid JOG input,
- positive/negative X/Y/Z jog,
- Set Work Offset to zero,
- Set Work Offset to arbitrary coordinates,
- setting only one axis,
- verifying MPos remains unchanged,
- verifying WPos changes correctly.

Finally, give me a report containing:
1. Files changed.
2. Exact cause of the JOG problem.
3. Exact cause of the Set Work Offset problem.
4. The GRBL commands now being generated.
5. Tests performed and their results.
6. Any remaining limitations.