I need you to investigate and fix the Machine Controller integration and frontend connection issues.

IMPORTANT:
Do not redesign or remove existing functionality.
Do not delete features.
Do not replace the Machine Agent architecture.
Do not change the API contract unless it is required to fix a verified bug.
Preserve all existing Head 1 and Head 2 functionality.

CURRENT ENVIRONMENT:
- Windows 11
- Frontend/Vite runs on port 25308
- API server runs on port 25309
- Machine Agent runs locally on 127.0.0.1:18888
- Machine Agent is built successfully with Java 17 + Maven.
- Frontend build succeeds.
- API server starts successfully.
- Machine Agent starts successfully.

PROBLEM 1 — MACHINE AGENT CANNOT CONNECT TO CNC:

The Machine Agent successfully starts and listens on:

http://127.0.0.1:18888/api/v1

The health endpoint works.

Windows detects the physical Arduino correctly:

COM6 → Arduino Uno → Status: OK
COM9 → Arduino Uno → Status: OK

COM6 is configured as:

115200 baud
8 data bits
No parity
1 stop bit

When I select the COM port and press Connect for a head, the Agent reaches:

Connecting to controller using class:
JSerialCommConnection with url
jserialcomm://COM6:115200

Then it hangs there and never completes the connection.

The relevant log is:

Aug 26, 2026 4:09:04 PM
com.willwinder.universalgcodesender.communicator.AbstractCommunicator connect
INFO:
Connecting to controller using class:
JSerialCommConnection with url
jserialcomm://COM6:115200

There is no successful connection afterwards.

Please investigate the complete connection flow:

Frontend
→ API/Agent communication
→ Machine Agent
→ UGS Core
→ JSerialComm
→ physical COM port

Determine exactly where the connection is getting stuck.

Check both Head 1 and Head 2 connection logic.
Make sure the selected COM port is actually passed to the correct head/controller.
Make sure Head 1 and Head 2 are independent and cannot accidentally share the same controller/session.

Do not simply increase timeouts or hide the problem.
Find the actual cause and fix it.

Also verify that the connection state returned by the Agent is correctly propagated to the frontend.

PROBLEM 2 — FRONTEND SAYS AGENT IS CONNECTED BUT DOES NOT SHOW PORTS:

I also tested another scenario.

I ran only the backend/API side and opened the frontend directly from Replit.

I entered the Machine Agent token into the Machine Controller page.

The frontend reported that the Agent was connected successfully.

However, the available physical COM ports were NOT displayed.

For example, Windows has:

COM6 → Arduino Uno
COM9 → Arduino Uno

but the frontend did not show these available ports.

This means that Agent health/authentication appears to succeed, but the frontend is not successfully retrieving or displaying:

GET /api/v1/serial-ports

or the corresponding serial-port data.

Please trace this complete flow:

Frontend
→ Machine Agent URL
→ authentication/token
→ GET /api/v1/serial-ports
→ Agent response
→ frontend state
→ port dropdown/list

Find exactly where the data is lost.

IMPORTANT ARCHITECTURE REQUIREMENT:

The Machine Agent is LOCAL ONLY.

It binds to:

127.0.0.1:18888

The Replit/cloud frontend cannot directly access localhost on my Windows computer unless the browser is running locally on that same computer and the frontend is configured correctly.

Therefore, explicitly verify how the frontend determines the Agent URL.

We need the following scenarios to work correctly:

SCENARIO A:
Frontend running locally on Windows
+
API running locally
+
Machine Agent running locally
→ frontend can communicate with Machine Agent
→ COM ports are visible
→ Head 1/Head 2 can connect.

SCENARIO B:
Frontend opened from Replit/cloud
+
Machine Agent running on my local Windows PC
→ clearly handle the localhost/local-agent limitation.
Do not falsely report "connected" merely because /health is reachable through some unrelated backend/API path.
The UI must distinguish between:
- API connected
- Machine Agent connected
- serial ports successfully retrieved

Do not conflate these states.

UI REQUIREMENTS:

The Machine Controller UI must clearly show:

1. API connection status
2. Machine Agent connection status
3. Serial port discovery status
4. Available COM ports
5. Head 1 connection state
6. Head 2 connection state

If Agent health succeeds but serial-port discovery fails, show that as a separate error.

Do not show "connected" as a global success when the Agent is reachable but serial-port discovery is failing.

HEAD 1 / HEAD 2 REQUIREMENTS:

Everything that works for Head 1 must also work independently for Head 2:

- Port discovery
- Port selection
- Connect
- Disconnect
- Status
- DRO
- Alarm state
- Console
- Jog
- Home
- Reset
- Unlock
- Work zero
- Work offset
- Settings
- G-code streaming
- Pause
- Resume
- Stop
- Live telemetry

Verify that no frontend code accidentally hardcodes Head 1.

Verify that Head 2 uses its own controller ID/session and selected COM port.

JOG:

There was also a previous Jog problem.

The frontend generated:

$J=G21G91X-100F1000

GRBL rejected it with:

error: Bad number format

Investigate the Jog command generation and formatting.
Make sure the generated GRBL command is syntactically valid and compatible with the GRBL version being used.

Do not just suppress the error.

CONSOLE REQUIREMENT:

There must be TWO persistent consoles:

Head 1 Console
Head 2 Console

Each console must belong to its respective head.

The console must NOT disappear or be destroyed when switching between UI sections, scrolling, reconnecting, or receiving new telemetry.

I need to continuously see the console output and follow what is happening.

The console should retain a useful scrollback/history instead of being cleared every time the component rerenders.

UI/UX:

Keep the existing CNC safety behavior.

Do not automatically connect to a machine.
Do not automatically send motion commands.
All motion-capable operations must continue requiring explicit confirmation.

Do not remove safety confirmations.

FIRST TASK:

Before making changes, inspect the entire connection architecture and identify:

1. How the frontend obtains the Machine Agent URL.
2. How the token is stored and sent.
3. How /health is requested.
4. How /serial-ports is requested.
5. How the response is parsed.
6. How ports are assigned to Head 1/Head 2.
7. How Connect is implemented.
8. How the selected port reaches UGS Core.
9. Why COM6 reaches JSerialCommConnection and then hangs.
10. Why the Replit frontend can report Agent connected but cannot display the local COM ports.

Then implement the smallest correct fixes.

After fixing, run:

- frontend typecheck
- frontend production build
- API typecheck/build
- Machine Agent Maven build
- relevant tests

Also test the local frontend + local Agent workflow.

Do not declare the problem fixed merely because the frontend builds.
The actual connection/discovery flow must be verified.

At the end, give me a concise report containing:

- Root cause of the COM connection hang
- Root cause of the missing COM ports
- Root cause of the Jog error
- Files changed
- How Head 1 was verified
- How Head 2 was verified
- Exact commands required to run the complete project locally on Windows
- Any limitation when using the Replit/cloud frontend with a localhost-only Machine Agent